# STAT545A Mini Data Analysis Project 
### Author: Sara Kowalski
### Dataset: vancouver_trees

Hello! Welcome to my mini data analysis project for STAT545A! This repository contains all the files and work necessary to complete the 3 milestones for my mini data analysis project using the vancouver_trees dataset.

### Milesones
- [x] 1
- [x]  2
- []  3

### Project Goals 
The overarching goal of this project is to conduct a mini data analysis on the dataset of our choosing using the tools we have learned in class. Specifically we will be exploring a dataset within R studio and using the tidyverse package to manipulate and visualize our data and then prepare it for presentation. For my project, I have choosen to explore the vancouver_trees dataset which contains an abundance of data on the types of trees planted within the different neighbourhoods of the City of Vancouver. There are 3 milestones that must be completed for this project, each with their own distinct goals. 

#### Milestone 1 Goals
There were 3 main goals for the successful completion of milestone 1:
1. Pick a dataset from a list of 7 that interests you the most  
2. Explore the choosen dataset by manipulating and visualizing the data contained within the dataset
3. Formulate 4 research questions about the chosen dataset that will be answered in future milestones.

#### Milestone 2 Goals
There were 3 main goals for the successful completion of milestone 2:
1. Further explore the data and specifically the research questions generated in milestone 1 by completing 1 summarization and 1 graphing activity for each research question 
2. Determine the state of your data: tidy vs. untidy.
3. Narrow the research questions down to 2 which will be explored in milestone 3


### Repository Files 

| File                                | Contents                                                          |  
| ------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| README.md                           | contains a description of the project and the project repository  | 
| Milestone-1-MiniDataAnalysis.md     | contains the work for Milestone 1 that was knit from the Rmd file |  
| Milestone-1-MiniDataAnalysis.Rmd    | contains the script/template and R code for Milestone 1           |
| Sara-Kowalski-MiniDataAnalysis.Rproj| contains the Rstudio project information                          |
| .gitignore                          | contains instructions on files to ignore when committing a project|
| Milestone-1-MiniDataAnalysis_files  | contains the plots generated by the Rmd file for Task 2           |
| Milestone-2-MiniDataAnalysis.Rmd    | contains the script/template and R code for Milestone 2           |
| Milestone-2-MiniDataAnalysis.md     | contains the work for Milestone 2 that was knit from the Rmd file |


 
